# Summary
Simulate a society by modelling the same-traits economical groups(people, business) and interactions, measured by statistical metrics

# Simplified Macor Economic Model

on macro level, a society, like a country, is consists of various `Industry`, `Resource` and `Crowd`.
* `Industry`: is the aggregation of all the business produce similar products
* `Resource`: natural resoruce, including land, water, mechanical power and ores
* `Crowd`: people of similiar traits: like income level, net assets and educational level. They can be either `producer(worker)` or `consumer`

## Supply and Demand
Economic activity is solely driven by `consumer demand(needs)`: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Maslow%27s_hierarchy_of_needs
* Deficiency Needs: Physicalogical, Safety, Belonging and Love, Esteem
* Growth Needs: Cognitive, Aesthetic, Self Actualization, Transcendence

To sustain, the society has to `produce` proper and sufficient products and services to fulfill `consumer demand`. Business in various industries produces the products and services which will be eventually distributed to `consumers` or wasted.

* `happiness`: the unit to measure how a person's needs are fullfilled.
  * A person can only increase its happiness by spending `money` to buy `product` or `service`. And its happiness also decrease at a certain rate constantly.

## Production
Production is the process of using labor to convert materials to a product. To quantify the process, we define the following concepts:

### Work
* `entropy_reduction`: the unit to measure `work` put into a product in a production process, which conceptually is the chaos you moved from the materials to the outside environment. Although the actual meaning of entrophy doesn't matter, nor as how large is one `entropy_reduction`, we only need to know it is a consistent unit in space and time that measures `work`. We may use the two terms interchangably.


### Productivity
One certain product requires a fixed amount of `work` to be added on top of the input `material`, we need to define `productivity` to measure how efficient the process is.

* `productivity`: in a given `business`, the amount of `work` generated by a `worker` per simulation step. We may also call it `work_added_per_capita_per_step`. which is calculated with the follwing fomula(functino algorithm is configurable):
```
business.productivity = function(worker.productivity, tool.productivity)
worker.productivity = function(worker.happiness, worker.skill)
tool.productivity = function(worker.skill, tool.work)

// as a result
business.productivity = function(worker.happiness, worker.skill, tool.knowledge, tool.work)
```

* `worker.happiness`: impacted by to what extend this worker's needs is fulfilled
* `worker.skill`: impacted by knowledge and experience this worker accumulated from education and working.
* `tool.skill`: how much knowledge and experience is put into the tool. 





# Production and Consumption
* the society has many `Industries`
* An `Industry` may produce certain amount of `value`, which is measured by `entropy reduction`(move entropy from material to environment to produce) in one step.
* a `Product` is the sum of certain type and amount of `value`, which can be used for:
  * Increase Productivity: the `Product` should produce more `value` than itself in its lifetime. using DCF to estimate the current value in `value`.
  * fulfill human needs https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Maslow%27s_hierarchy_of_needs
    * deficiency needs: drive fundamental production activities
    * growth needs: drive social productivity increases
